v4.0.0-alpha.33 (#2009)
mui-org/material-ui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## [4.0.0-alpha.33](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui-x/compare/v4.0.0-alpha.32...v4.0.0-alpha.33)

_July 1, 2021_

Big thanks to the 6 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 💅 Allow to copy the selected rows to the clipboard (#1929) @m4theushw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 💅 Allow to copy the selected rows to the clipboard with <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd> (#1929) @m4theushw
```

> - 🚀 `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows after filter (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🚀 Click in the `Select all` checkbox now selects only the filtered rows (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli
```

> - 🚀 `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows after filter (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli

Reviewer 2: For bug fix? or 🐛

```suggestion
- 🐞 `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli
```

> - ⚡️ Add single select column type (#1956) @DanailH@

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ⚡️ Add a new `singleSelect` column type (#1956) @DanailH 
```

> - ⚡️ Add single select column type (#1956) @DanailH@

Reviewer 2: I think that it would be great to describe more the new feature: demo/link to the docs. Without context, it's hard to understand if it's relevant for a developer or not.

Author: I can add a link to the docs with a small code example

- 🐞 Bugfixes

### @material-ui/x-grid@v4.0.0-alpha.32 / @material-ui/data-grid@v4.0.0-alpha.32

#### Breaking changes

> - [DataGrid] Rename onColumnResizeCommitted to onColumnWidthChange (#1967) @m4theushw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Rename `onColumnResizeCommitted` to `onColumnWidthChange` (#1967) @m4theushw
```

> ```diff
>   -<DataGrid onColumnResizeCommitted={...} />
>   +<DataGrid onColumnWidthChange={...} />
> ```

Reviewer 2: Indent

```suggestion
  ```diff
  -<DataGrid onColumnResizeCommitted={...} />
  +<DataGrid onColumnWidthChange={...} />
  ```
```

- [DataGrid] Make GRID_ROWS_CLEAR private (#1925) @oliviertassinari

  The `GRID_ROWS_CLEAR` event was always triggered alongside `GRID_ROWS_SET`. You can listen to the latter event only.

- [DataGrid] Fix events naming (#1862) @m4theushw

  The following `XGrid` events were renamed:

  - `columnHeaderNavigationKeydown` to `columnHeaderNavigationKeyDown`
  - `columnResizeCommitted` to `columnWidthChange`
  - `rowsUpdated` to `rowsUpdate`
  - `rowsCleared` to `rowsClear`
  - `columnsUpdated` to `columnsChange`

  The following `XGrid` DOM events were removed:

  - `focusout`
  - `keydown`
  - `keyup`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add fallback for pagination translations (#2006) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add single select column type (#1956) @DanailH
- [DataGrid] Allow to copy the selected rows to the clipboard (#1929) @m4theushw

> - [DataGrid] Better fix the scrollToIndexes logic (#1969) @oliviertassinari

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Improve the logic of `scrollToIndexes` (#1969) @oliviertassinari
```

> - [DataGrid] Better fix the scrollToIndexes logic (#1969) @oliviertassinari

Reviewer 2: Simpler and more accuate?

```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Improve scrollToIndexes logic (#1969) @oliviertassinari
```

- [DataGrid] Fix deferred rendering race condition (#1807) @dtassone
- [DataGrid] Fix double-click issue (#1919) @oliviertassinari
- [DataGrid] Fix number edit cell output (#1959) @oliviertassinari

> - [DataGrid] Fix scrollToIndexes offscreen row (#1949) @oliviertassinari

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix offscreen row when calling `scrollToIndexes` (#1949) @oliviertassinari
```

- [DataGrid] Ignore drag events when disableColumnReorder is true (#1952) @m4theushw

> - [DataGrid] `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows after filter (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli
```

> - [DataGrid] `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows after filter (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli

Reviewer 2: This is implicit

```suggestion
- [DataGrid] `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli
```

- [XGrid] Add option to select only visible rows on the current page (#1998) @DanailH

### Docs

- [docs] Align docs with EULA (source of truth) (#1963) @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Fix changing Dataset not working (#1965) @m4theushw
- [docs] Fix description of union types (#2003) @m4theushw

> - [CHANGELOG] Fix typo @oliviertassinari

Reviewer: This is not a PR.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: We could link the commit, but yeah, I do a few small fixes occasionally. But I would aim for batching, better

### Core

- [core] Polish filtering internals (#1760) @ZeeshanTamboli
- [core] Upgrade actions-cool/issues-helper (#1962) @oliviertassinari

> - [core] virtualised => virtualized (#1988) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [core] Name variables according to enUS instead of enGB (#1988) @flaviendelangle
```

Reviewer 2: @flaviendelangle Note that when you merge a PR, try to keep the title for the commit message. It's not done automatically by GitHub if there a single commit.

- [test] Test vertical scrollbar (#1932) @oliviertassinari

> - [core] Remove blank lines @oliviertassinari

Reviewer: This is not a PR.

```suggestion
```

Author: Yes but it was in the list - either way i guess it is not that important

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## [4.0.0-alpha.33](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui-x/compare/v4.0.0-alpha.32...v4.0.0-alpha.33)

_July 1, 2021_

Big thanks to the 6 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 💅 Allow to copy the selected rows to the clipboard with <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd> (#1929) @m4theushw
- 🐛 `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli
- ⚡️ Add a new `singleSelect` column type (#1956) @DanailH

  Using the column `type: 'singleSelect'` defaults to `Select` component when the cell is in `edit` mode. You can find the documentation [following this link](https://material-ui.com/components/data-grid/columns/#column-types).

>   ```

Reviewer: Hmm it seems that `jsx` is already used in the CHANGELOG in the core. @oliviertassinari can we use it here?

    <DataGrid
      columns={[
        {
          field: 'country',
          type: 'singleSelect',
          valueOptions: ['France', 'Netherlands', 'Brazil'],
          editable: true,
        }
      ]}
      rows={[
        { id: 0, country: 'France' },
        { id: 1, country: 'Netherlands' },
        { id: 2, country: 'Brazil' },
      ]}
    />
  ```

### @material-ui/x-grid@v4.0.0-alpha.32 / @material-ui/data-grid@v4.0.0-alpha.32

#### Breaking changes

- [DataGrid] Rename `onColumnResizeCommitted` to `onColumnWidthChange` (#1967) @m4theushw

  ```diff
  -<DataGrid onColumnResizeCommitted={...} />
  +<DataGrid onColumnWidthChange={...} />

> 

Reviewer 2: ⚠️

- [DataGrid] Make GRID_ROWS_CLEAR private (#1925) @oliviertassinari

>   The `GRID_ROWS_CLEAR` event was always triggered alongside `GRID_ROWS_SET`. You can listen to the latter event only.

Reviewer 2: It's weird that we use different conventions in the same release to take about the events.

Reviewer: True, let's keep only the camelCase version.

- [DataGrid] Fix events naming (#1862) @m4theushw

  The following `XGrid` events were renamed:

  - `columnHeaderNavigationKeydown` to `columnHeaderNavigationKeyDown`
  - `columnResizeCommitted` to `columnWidthChange`
  - `rowsUpdated` to `rowsUpdate`

>   - `rowsCleared` to `rowsClear`

Reviewer 2: It was removed so not relevant. 

```suggestion
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## [4.0.0-alpha.33](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui-x/compare/v4.0.0-alpha.32...v4.0.0-alpha.33)

_July 1, 2021_

Big thanks to the 6 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 💅 Allow to copy the selected rows to the clipboard with <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>c</kbd> (#1929) @m4theushw
- 🐛 `Select all` checkbox click should select only filtered rows (#1879) @ZeeshanTamboli
- ⚡️ Add a new `singleSelect` column type (#1956) @DanailH

  Using the column `type: 'singleSelect'` defaults to `Select` component when the cell is in `edit` mode. You can find the documentation [following this link](https://material-ui.com/components/data-grid/columns/#column-types).

>   ```tsx

Reviewer: We never used `tsx` or `jsx` in the CHANGELOG. Maybe leave it for the release only.

    <DataGrid
      columns={[
        {
          field: 'country',
          type: 'singleSelect',
          valueOptions: ['France', 'Netherlands', 'Brazil'],
          editable: true,
        }
      ]}
      rows={[
        { id: 0, country: 'France' },
        { id: 1, country: 'Netherlands' },

>         { id: 1, country: 'Brazil' },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        { id: 2, country: 'Brazil' },
```

      ]}
    />
  ```

> - 🐞 Bugfixes

Reviewer: I would move this line to before the `singleSelect`. It's alone here.
